[Music]
hey everybody welcome to another episode
of impact theory i am here with the
legend seth godin seth welcome to the
show
well thanks for having me the last
interview still sits with me you worked
so hard you prepped so deep it was
really fun awesome man well i'm honored
by that and
i am very excited to talk about the new
book today i went just as hard on this
one and i think that this book is
incredibly important for anybody that
wants to do something profound with
their life and when i first
was researching you for the last episode
i came across an idea that is just it's
something i repeat to myself it's
something i bring up to people all the
time and it feels like it's the central
theme of this book which is show me your
bad writing so for anybody who says you
know i i can't write or i'm a bad writer
whatever that question's so profound
is that what you see as a central idea
behind practice or is it something else
well the practice involves several
things all woven together one of them is
definitely show me your bad video show
me your bad public speaking show me your
bad counseling show me your bed therapy
show me your bad
engineering designs
because
we've been trained to get attached to
the outcome
and there's this belief that
the effort the process the
practice doesn't matter
and if the outcome isn't going to be
great don't even bother
but the only way to get to great
outcomes is to show up with this
practice and get better
so that's one of the key things the
second one is that we can get out of our
own head by
stopping this mindset of hustling people
to get more than our fair share of
attention and instead approach it with
generosity
because
the purpose of shipping the work is not
so you can come out ahead the purpose of
shipping the work is to make things
better
so we will definitely get to the
principle of generosity which shows up a
lot in the book but there was another
concept that shows up a lot as well that
i think is important for framing
the book why you wrote it and what the
ultimate outcome will be and that's this
idea of being brainwashed
how exactly have we been brainwashed
well so let's say i
had a secret committee and i came to the
government of the united states or any
place in the west in 1850 and said
here's what i want to do i want to spend
over a trillion dollars a year in time
and money i want every single child from
the age of five to spend six to eight
hours a day with me for 10 to 15 years
in a row and then i want to build into
the culture mindset of consumption and
compliance okay
like
no one would go for that plan and that's
exactly what we did and when you and i
spoke previously we talked about the
mindset of education versus learning but
the brainwashing runs really deep
because the industrial system needs us
to be acquiring status seeking uh
cogs in their system because the
factories are so efficient they just
keep making more stuff
and what i'm trying to reflect back on
people
is
you can pick yourself and you can show
up and ship work that makes things
better that you are proud of and you
don't need anyone's permission
now this is a period of pretty profound
disruption and i'm curious to was that
part of why you wrote this book now or
was this book long sort of in
development before all of this hit
yeah i've been working directly on this
book for three years
so
it has been i think a moment of
disruption in our culture for at least
20. the internet
did some amazing things and many of us
were there at the beginning
forgot to focus on the things that
weren't going to be so amazing
and one of the things it did was it gave
everybody a microphone
and that's a good thing because voices
previously unheard
were not heard before and now they are
it helped focus a long overdue lens on
racial injustice for example but the
other problem was that it created these
chambers of noise where
you got ahead and the media companies
got ahead
by dividing us by creating breaking news
that isn't breaking that isn't news by
calling people friends who aren't
friends and buttons likes that aren't
likes and so
we can't discount how hard the media
worked against all of our peace of mind
and well-being for the last 15 or 20
years
and it took a toll and we're feeling
that toll in politics but we're also
feeling that toll deep in our soul
so a few years ago i set out to make a
workshop for creatives and it was a full
year like i can usually make a workshop
in a few weeks because it's based on
years of my life but this was a year of
really digging deep to understand how do
you even teach somebody
to be a professional creative to ship
important work
and then
we ran the workshop for
500 people it changed lives deeply and
as i was watching people engage with
that work
i said i have no choice even though it's
so much effort i have to make a book
so what is it about all of that that is
so profoundly changing for people is
there like a key insight or a key idea
that unlocks something for somebody
it streaks
it seems really trivial it streaks that
inside the creators workshop people
wrote every day for 100 days without
missing a day and the writing isn't the
point none few of these people are
professional writers uh one person who
was in the workshop just got a major
record deal from a famous record label
because he
did his lyrics he did his music he
shared it and the average person gave
and got 500 pieces of feedback a month
and i would ask people who aren't part
of something like that when was the last
time you gave and got 500 pieces of
useful feedback we're not supposed to do
that at work we're not supposed to do
that with friends where are we supposed
to do that
and
it turns out if you can make a circle of
five people you can do it with each
other that this practice
says
i don't have to be in the mood
it's my work
and i don't have to be motivated and i
don't have to have the muse talk to me i
simply do this work i chop the wood i
carry the water
and then
maybe
it resonates with people or if it
doesn't i learn something and i do it
again there's a quote from the book that
i wrote down that i want to read
verbatim which speaks to exactly what
you're talking about now which is the
practice is not the means to the output
the practice is the output because the
practice is all we can control
that that to me is one of the the most
profound takeaways from the book to be
sure and then in terms of that streaks
being consistent putting in the work
doing this stuff over and over
is exactly what i've seen in my own life
so one of the ideas that i'm always
trying to get across to people is don't
worry about you know whether you're a
born this that or the other it's
understanding that the human animal is
the ultimate adaptation machine that as
a species we've literally picked the
strategy of improvement of being able to
learn something so instead of coming out
fully baked we come out with the ability
to be baked as it were you know as you
go down the path of something
what i want to know and what you cover
so interestingly in the book is
how do you move from blindly doing
something to doing something with
intention
so intention
design thinking intentional action
if it's a hobby
go for it it's for you
if it's work it's ultimately for other
people
it's ultimately to cause a change to
happen if you're not causing a change
then i'm not sure why you're taking up
our time
but if you seek to make a change in the
world you have to ask three simple
questions
who's it for who specifically am i
seeking to change who specifically am i
building this for what's it for
can i say what this does
and what change am i seeking to make
which is related to the what's it for if
i can't say it
then i'm just
ranting right but if i can be very clear
it's for people who believe this it's
for people who want this it's for people
who are aligned with this and after you
engage with my work you will feel
differently or you will act differently
that is the work of the creator and
we don't want to say any of those things
because it puts us on the hook
and being on the hook feels
uncomfortable
and so we wriggle away but i think being
on the hook is the best place to be
let's talk more about that in the book
you give an example i'd actually never
heard before of this old turkish custom
of putting a loaf of bread on the hook
which then led me to look up the
etymology of the phrase on the hook and
did it come from that and i thought that
whole idea was so interesting
one if you can walk us through that
turkish idea of putting a loaf of bread
on the hook which i think ties into your
notion of generosity and and how that
plays into artistry um
let's start there rather than asking
eight questions at once
um
so i guess it's still true i haven't
been to turkey in a few years if you go
to a local bakery and you can afford it
you buy two loaves of bread instead of
one
and you say to the person behind the
counter put that one on the hook
and then somebody who's hungry stops by
the bakery and says see anything on the
hook
and they take a loaf of bread buy one
give one
and it's just beautiful in the sense
that you know bread is the staff of life
it doesn't cost that much to pay it
forward but that got me thinking about
the phrase on the hook because we
usually associate it with fish
and fish don't like being on the hook
and it's not a generous act for a fish
to be on the hook it's selfless but i'm
not sure that the fish then goes on to
live another day so i like this idea of
putting your work on the hook and saying
here i made this here i here this and it
might not be for you but i made this
and that approach to it
lets me shift my gears from please judge
me please pay me please reward me to oh
i had the ability to weave something
together and i did here
and most of us want to be generous and
getting out of our own way is so
important
so i want to push on that a little bit i
think there's something really profound
in that for the person who's
experiencing quote unquote writer's
block who doesn't have the bad writing
for them to begin to shift out of the
inward focus to this concept that you
have of generosity the story you tell in
the book and i don't know if you i can't
remember if you intentionally told this
for this reason but when you went fly
fishing for the first time you didn't
want to hook which i thought was utterly
fascinating and so you practiced all of
the things around fly fishing but you
intentionally did not want to catch a
fish
what what was it in that moment that
made that act still useful
okay so let's assert for a moment that
fly fishing is not generous to the fish
and that um
the other people i was with
were throwing the fish back
so we weren't trying to feed our
families we were out there on this river
in wyoming seeking
to commune with nature and to engage in
a process of practice being mindful
about what we were doing
and i just knew instinctively that if
there was a hook on that fly
i was going to be using the all of my
powers of telekinesis to will the fish
to bite my hook that i would be
measuring
the quality and goodness of my work
based on whether a uh a primordial being
decided to bite the hook and i said
that's going to take me totally out of
my head i don't want to have the fish be
part of my day that's not why i'm here
and
it turned out within a few minutes and
for several hours after that i was
casting better than almost anybody in
the crew
because i was simply casting i was
merely casting i wasn't connected to the
outcome
and
so there's a paradox here because on one
hand we only do the work to make things
happen we only do the work with this
generous mindset but we must
do the work with a practice
that ignores the guarantee that it's
going to work
and back to your brainwashing thing from
a few minutes ago
if you've ever said to a teacher or to
yourself will this be on the test
you have revealed education will this be
on the test says the following
i will pay attention and learn this for
a little while
if you promise that you will give me an
a
that's the exchange
that's not how you learned how to ride a
bike that's not how you learned how to
do anything that actually matters to you
you did those other things because you
could and then you enjoyed the benefits
thereafter not in some transaction
and so the practice says
i seek to make things better for people
i care about but the only way i'm going
to do that is by
not imagining them looking over my
shoulder at every turn but instead to
engage with this work
now so as you get into the idea of
generosity and you start focusing on um
creating
real art that changes people and it has
this almost interactive focus
i know a lot of people then slip into
well then how do i even charge for this
so how do you begin to integrate this
into a
real life where people have to feed
their families and at some point you do
need a fish whether it's a literal fish
or not on the hook how do people
reconcile those two ideas
yeah so commerce has to show up in our
western culture and i guess i would
start with this please don't quit your
day job today
just because you heard us talking
you can begin with your side hustle you
can begin with your practice because it
might take a while for it to get to the
point where you have created something
so peculiar and particular and unique
and remarkable that people will eagerly
pay for it
and if you need to paint your
masterpiece in the next hour i don't
know how to help you
so
that's the first place i start that you
may have to be a cog in the system for a
little while longer as you develop trust
as you develop a reputation as you
develop the permission to talk to your
followers
so um you know we've been talking about
art art so we'll start with that abby
ryan abby ryan
decided i don't know 10 or 15 years ago
to paint an oil painting every day
and
when you say that out loud you realize
that's a pretty unusual thing to do
and then she started videoing her work
as she did it and she started teaching
people generously how to do it
and over time
as she got better and her reputation
improved
her ebay sales went from oh this
painting was a hundred dollars dude this
painting is eight hundred dollars but
you're making 800 every day making an
oil painting in an hour and a half
that's a gig right and then it was
featured in oprah magazine and then
people are buying it not because they
saw abby painting it but because she's
actually really good at it okay but it
all began with this germ of an idea
which is i can connect people to my
practice
but let's just go totally in a different
direction let's say you're a real estate
broker
most real estate brokers are freaking
out correctly
because zillow makes it clear we don't
need them
right that you can look at every single
house for sale in vermont
anytime you want from your the safety of
your covid free living room
so why are they getting paid six percent
of eight hundred thousand dollars
this is a problem
except for some real estate agents who
know every single person in town who
uh coach the little league team
run this organization have people have
meetings in their office all the time
have a point of view and only sell
and buy in a very particular place
whether it's for a community or based on
geography
that person is worth more than they
charge
because that person is bringing a level
of humanity that is not in the playbook
they cannot easily be replaced
and so one of the things i mentioned in
the book is the origins of the word
peculiar and peculiar comes from the
latin for cattle and it means private
property you own the cattle peculiar
means you are in and of yourself
all the systems in our life push us not
to do that you're an uber driver well
you better be invisible all their rules
are you can't be a particular peculiar
uber driver you have to be the standard
one
so my advice is don't be an uber driver
figure out what you can do instead where
you actually
benefit by being you
you have a quote in the book and i'm
forgetting now who it came from but it
was like genius is the person who can be
most truly who they are
and i found that really interesting and
it got into this concept which you talk
a lot about in the book and i'd love to
get your real-time explanation of
uh
uh the alternate title to the book
before you ended up settling on that one
was like be yourself or the power
what was it
trust yourself trust yourself so what
what is this you end up separating the
word self in the book um so you put your
and self
why what's the distinction what's the
power of the self what was that whole
idea um
trust yourself when you're talking to
yourself who is talking and who is
listening
right this is a fascinating thing that
we don't examine very often someone's
talking and someone's listening and it's
still you
so i'm arguing that
the verbal
fearful
compliant
sometimes
scared voice
is the frontal cortex the part of our
brain that isn't particularly good at
creativity and then the one that's
listening the one that's getting shut
down the one that claims it wants to be
authentic
is that other one that one that's
willing to push us forward
and what i'm saying is we are a dance of
both
to trust yourself does not mean that you
just do whatever you feel like and are
guaranteed it's going to work it
probably won't
what it means is
you need to listen to that voice more
often
and if you can develop a practice that
lets that voice show up in a way that it
can
your work your life gets better and you
can start today if you want to be a
runner you don't
do a lot of planning you don't get
runners world magazine and change your
sneakers and sign up for this and sign
up for that if you want to be a runner
you go running it doesn't matter how far
and you do it again tomorrow and if you
do it for 30 days in a row you're a
runner and if you keep doing it you'll
get better
that is the practice the practice says
i'm committing to this method
and
i'm going to have streaks whatever form
they take and one day i'll get better at
this and when i do i'll be able to serve
the people i hope to change
one of the coolest things in the book i
think this is so profound is this idea
that if you want to change your story if
you want to change your own
self-narrative if you want to begin to
shape your identity you change your
behaviors first and not the other way
around um why is that how did you come
to that that's pretty counter-intuitive
it's true and um
there's a lot of brain science that goes
to this it has to do with where our
narrative even comes from
we what we do is we see the world around
us and then we make up a story about it
not the other way around that uh dan
dennett the great philosophy
professor at tufts has proven that
dreams happen in the moment we wake up
that all night there's electrical
activity in our brain
but it's not till we wake up that we try
to make sense of it that's interesting
i've never heard that before yeah it's
pretty cool and it makes perfect sense
how they proved it was tricky but it
makes perfect sense to me because the
storytelling part is our conscious brain
and
if you are somebody who always goes out
of their way
to open doors for other people and help
them
then you will start telling yourself a
story that that's the kind of behavior
you admire
not the other way around
and so
just choosing a behavior if you want to
be a writer right if you want to be a
runner run that will change how you
think of you and your work
you talk about passion as a choice
how is that true and if it is then how
do we go about making the right choice
right so this is um
a little bit controversial because a lot
of people want to find their passion
they say how do i find my calling
and
i point out to them that there are
plumbers who think they found their
calling and there are plumbers who wish
they could sing opera and there are
opera singers who think they found their
calling and there are other opera
singers who think it's just a grind it
turns out it has nothing to do with the
profession
it has to do with our narrative about
the profession so to your previous point
doing the work changes our story about
the work
and i think it's so much more reliable
and so much easier
to love what you do than it is to do
what you love
making the choice to love what you do
means that whatever you're doing
you can be in love
and
you know i'm super lucky i don't have to
dig ditches for a living or work in a
toxic waste dump i'm really grateful for
that
um but there are also plenty of people
who if you said you have to write a blog
post for free every day 7 500 times in a
row would say
that's horrible for me i love that and
that was just a choice i decided that i
would love doing that
okay so we're in that moment we're gary
goldman we know what we're trying to do
which you talk a lot about in the book i
think that's really important how do we
get better like how how do we march down
that path
in my experience the best creators have
learned how to see
they have not learned how to see by
using one of those
digital please stay on the phone after
this call and rank our service kind of
survey
they learn how to see because they
understand genre because they develop
good taste
good taste is knowing what your audience
wants 10 minutes before they do
so
diane von furstenberg burst onto the
scene with her wrap dress in the 1970s
revolutionized
a corner of women's fashion how did she
know
and i've talked to her about this she's
completely non-verbal she's unable to
explain how she knew she has nothing
but she knew
because she learned how to see
because she exposed herself enough she
developed pattern matching abilities and
domain knowledge is so important genre
is so important it's not generic
it's genre what does this remind us of
what does it rhyme with when i touch the
emotion you're seeking what other
emotions are right next to it we develop
these things some people are really
lucky get lucky early and some people
takes 10 20 years to develop this
sensibility the first year i was a book
packager i sold my first book the first
day to warner books
chip conley and i 5 000 bucks we split
the money
and then chip went back to doing his gig
which was hotels and i said i'm going to
be a book packager if i could sell a
book a week i'll be fine
and i got 800 rejection letters in a row
800 times over the next 12 months
someone in the book industry cared
enough to buy a stamp send me a letter
saying this is a bad idea go away 800
times
and i didn't keep making the same
mistake i kept making new mistakes and
in that industry it was socially
acceptable to send people a proposal and
it was totally understandable that they
would write back
and then
something clicked into place and i
learned to see
and within two years after that
i'd sold 20 books and over the course of
10 years i did 120 books and i could
tell about half the time i was right
about half the time if i said this one's
a big one
it was a big one can you walk us through
that process
i i know your story well enough to know
like when you were trying to get better
at writing you were looking at james
bond we talked about this in in our
first interview
that process to me is incredibly
important how were you asking yourself
new questions like how did you make sure
you were making new mistakes not
repeating it and how are you making sure
that you were getting incrementally
closer
to so that you were analyzing okay i did
this i got this result and
right great question
the first books were how to hypnotize
your friends and get them to act like
chickens
and the fortune cookie construction set
so the fortune cookie construction set
was the only book at the time
where you could look up a recipe for
fortune cookies because fortune cookies
don't have their recipes in american
cookbooks and they didn't have the
recipe in chinese cookbooks
and so the first page was the recipe for
fortune cookies and the next uh
hundred pages were little perforated
fortunes that you could tear out and put
into the 14 like henny youngman fortunes
this voice and effort no one wanted to
publish that
and the other one was one of the first
uh not
first one of the only books anyone had
ever pitched on hypnotism how to do
stage hypnotism at home and how to
hypnotize your friends to get them act
like chickens no one wanted to publish
that either
and i just kept kind of one thing after
another that was either clever and i was
proud of myself for being clever or
because i had a mba
i had spreadsheets to prove
that people would actually buy the book
and then what came to me
no one explained it to me but what i
figured out was
the people in the book industry who
tended to go to famous colleges were
dramatically underpaid really underpaid
and they weren't in it to sell a lot of
books because they didn't know how many
books they were selling it took a year
and a half after a book was bought
purchased
for them to know how many copies it was
had sold and by then they weren't even
interested they'd moved on so no one in
the industry had a spreadsheet cared
about spreadsheets or was keeping track
of spreadsheets
and no one in the industry wanted to
reward me for being clever
so what i realized was
book people bought books that they were
proud of
and they bought books that they wanted
to talk to their colleagues about
and if i made books like that
they would publish them happily
particularly if i was the kind of person
they wanted to buy books from
not that i was well liked in a willy
loman sense but that i was
a
professional who was in it for the right
reasons
not somebody who was trying to hustle
and advance so i could make another
clever book
and
that led to a real shift on my part of
who's it for what's it for what change
am i seeking to make because what i
realized is first it has to be
good enough in quotation marks to appeal
to the gatekeeper
but i wasn't actually doing all this
effort just to make them happy i wanted
to make the readers change i wanted to
reach readers but i had to do a bank
shot first i had to get it through the
editor and then i had a chance to get to
the reader and that's one reason why my
blog has been around so long because my
blog was disintermediated my blog meant
i didn't have to please an editor i
could just write for my reader
and that's a huge shift in our culture
but it also means you don't get anointed
by an editor the way you used to and get
a guaranteed audience the typical failed
book in new york now new york publishing
has gone from 20 000 copies is what a
decent failed book would do to 200
because 20 000 used to be you'd fill up
all the barnes and nobles we'll fill up
all the local bookstores you'll sell 20
000.
now it's well amazon doesn't reorder and
we only ship them 10.
i want to talk about imposter syndrome
and the reason that i'm bringing it up
now is as you were going through that i
thought there's there's really something
here about
is it just that seth godin is
inordinately good at that analysis
or is it that the practice itself of
doing something over and over and over
is going to yield a result
and
for the person whose self-narrative is
i'm not as good as seth godin they're of
course going to get into that imposter
syndrome and you've already addressed
that hey you probably really aren't good
enough at this yet you talk in the book
about so many things being a process
that you think you're sort of either
born with or not
i'm working on this concept i call the
physics of being human that there are
just certain things that the brain does
whether you want them to or not they're
universal to all of us and one of them
that i was thinking about yesterday
while researching you is this idea that
we we analyze and you analyze by default
and so journaling is powerful because
whether you want your brain to or not it
is going to analyze what you're writing
what you're doing practicing being a
plumber you're going to analyze
submitting all the book proposals you're
going to analyze
is there a way for us to sharpen our
skill of
being able to
see that gap to recognize oh what's
really going on here is the you know the
guy with the harvard mba or whatever
he's underpaid and he's doing this for a
whole different reason
i don't think most people verbalize as
much as i do
and
that's fine that some of the most
successful people i know
don't verbalize
in almost every field so i'm looking to
see uh if i can show you yes here it is
so this book was a turning point for me
so i'll give you the background of this
book um
cliff notes used to be a very big deal
cliff notes used to be the single
biggest profit center at a lot of
bookstores
and the guys from cliff notes because it
was reliable you had 100 titles they
sold and sold and sold
and the margins were good and the guys
at cliff notes in publishers weekly
published the list of their top 30
sellers
to help bookstores know which ones to
stock
but it also told me which ones to
compete with them on because they
revealed their short head
and i said well who wants a cliff notes
who wants a cliff notes is some kid who
doesn't want to read a 30 page cliff
notes they want to read four page cliff
notes so why don't i just take 35 of the
best-selling cliff notes and put them
all in one book
so for the price of two cliff notes you
get all the cliff notes
and i need a credential so i got college
students to write them all a students
from tufts university
and this is a brilliant idea i can prove
spreadsheets back and forth that this is
a brilliant idea
and it wasn't going to sell because i
still was
floundering about trying to figure out
what people wanted
and i met this guy named john boswell
and john boswell wrote
o.j legal oj's legal pad and he created
french for cats
and he'd done million sellers one after
another a real
nice to me profane guy
and i went to see him on a mutual
introduction and he ripped my proposal
apart and said i will help you with this
but we're going to split the book we're
going to split it i'm like fine i got
nothing go for it
and he said the first thing you're doing
is you're laser printing your proposals
i said yeah it costs a dollar a page i
gotta walk down there and print it out
on the laser printer he's like no no no
and he calls the secretary in and has
her retype my proposal
using carbon paper on that onion skin
paper
and like what's that about
he said because authors have typewriters
and he didn't have words to explain why
you needed to act like an author when
you weren't being it
so i decoded
some of what he had learned right and
then i learned that i watched him
interact with the editors who we were
trying to sell it to and he was mean to
them
one after another
and i tried to decode this because many
of the most successful agents in new
york at the time were mean
to their clients
but i realized again
it's all a club and it's a club people
want to be a member of and they only
have a few tools to use to get them to
be members of certain clubs and if this
club is seen as
difficult to get into the whole groucho
marx thing they will try harder to get
into it and like so all and i never did
the whole mean thing but i got the joke
immediately about he didn't know have
words for what he was doing even though
he was a really successful book guy
he just knew what had worked how did he
know because he went through the process
i went through he showed up and he
showed up and he showed up and
we look
you know i i was talking about this the
other day um
go look on
the streaming services and you can
listen to one of joni mitchell's first
demos she does a cover of house of the
rising sun
and when i saw it show up on my browser
the other day i was really excited
it's not good
and if she hadn't made it she wouldn't
have made all the other ones
so that's what we got to do we show up
we cut the wood and we chop the water or
catch off the water and whatever you get
the idea chop the wood carry the water
uh you mentioned joni mitchell in the
book it is a really interesting moment
and i'm curious how you think about this
so one of the things that i worry about
as people go down this path of okay hey
seth told me that i'm going to have
impostor syndrome i'm not i'm probably
not good enough yet but i need to become
peculiar i need to be myself really lean
into that don't worry about alienating
those people and then you tell this
wonderful story about joni mitchell and
joni mitchell realizes that she's going
over people's heads but instead of being
like oh my god i feel terrible about
that and sort of dumbing it down which
was a very famous jay-z lyric about how
he dumbed it down for his audience and
doubled his dollars
she goes even more highbrow and now we
obviously remember her you know decades
later
is there a danger in
leaning into that where you may not
actually
you may be being arrogant instead of
being accurate yes okay so the first
thing i want to put a pin in that's
super important i do not believe in
authenticity
i do not think you have any right to do
whatever you feel like and whatever pops
into your head as the version of you
that you think is the authentic one is
not correct
the audience does not want an authentic
you you do not want an authentic anybody
when you hire anything when you go to a
concert now if you go to a jay-z concert
and he's in a bad mood you don't want
him to be in a bad mood you want him to
be the best version of jay-z that's what
you paid for consistency consistency is
part of being peculiar
consistently generous consistently
showing up rhyming with yourself in a
way that you're proud of
but no not authentic you're not entitled
so with that said
the joni mitchell story has a key piece
of nuance in it joni mitchell like most
successful musicians as i mentioned with
the doobie brothers was becoming a hack
she was a legend she could every record
that she was doing was breaking every
uh sales record there was she could have
done it for 50 more years she could have
been the rolling stones that was the
past she was not but to do that you need
to play covers of yourself you need to
make sure it sounds like a joni mitchell
album
what joni mitchell did bob dylan did the
same thing
she intentionally
alienated her audience she intentionally
made them go away she made don juan's
reckless daughter
breaking the hearts of her record label
because she didn't want to be joni
mitchell with a capital j and a capital
m
she knew that her smallest viable
audience was smaller than the audience
she had
get rid of the people who don't get the
joke make the music that you want to be
proud of back to art away from being a
hack there's nothing wrong
with being a hack because the fact is
rolling stones made a billion dollars
being a hack but
jordy mitchell said i only want my
people who want to go on this journey
enrolled where i am going
and the happy medium there is the role
is uh grateful dead gravel dead sold 500
million dollars worth of tickets but the
promise was
you don't know what you're going to get
when you come
and
the promise was there are going to be
parts of this that are boring
and
we're going to
explore the edges that's what we do
and so you can earn that
right to show up and say i know i'm
doing that or i'm doing this so when
permission marketing became a new york
times bestseller i had a big choice to
make
because i'd been in the book world for a
long time and now i was finally an
author
and that book sold so i could have
done the permission marketing handbook
because that book would have been easy
to sell to an editor or i could have
started mailchimp because that business
would have been really good
and then i would have been the email
marketing guy because that was my
background i had earned the right to
show up and say this
and i intentionally did not do that
because i wanted the feeling you get
when you launch a book like survival is
not enough
and then it comes with the feeling of
what happens when it only sells 13 000
copies
right that's part of the deal if that's
the journey you want to go on
you quote joni mitchell in the book and
she says i'm paraphrasing but
they're going to crucify you if you stay
the same they're going to crucify you if
you change staying the same is boring
change is interesting so i'd rather be
crucified for changing i thought whoa
that's actually really powerful
yeah as different groups are doing the
crucify right if you stay the same
the real joyous fans are thrilled
they want you to play coverage it's the
other people the fancy opinion leading
people that are going to say you're not
relevant anymore
you said
you wanted to do something different
because you wanted that feeling you get
what is that feeling you get when you do
something that might not work
um you know the book ends with a quote
from papa wolenda of the flying
wallendas
which he may or may not have said but
which is quoted in the movie rounders by
my friend brian koppelman and david
levine and he says something like uh
life is on the tight rope and the tight
rope is the only place to be
and what it means to be on the tightrope
is that our job as humans is not
to
eat sleep and die
our job as human humans is to
sing or to dance or to connect or to
lead
and all of those things have tight ropes
associated with them
and it's in that moment of it might not
work
that
we or at least me that i become alive
because you
built something you it's you organize
the surprise party you put together the
pieces and now in this moment you're
about to learn something
that is so different from taking the
truffles from the conveyor belt and
putting them in the box all day
that's not what we were born to do i
don't think
so we're living on the tightrope
i want to
make the most of that so if we're going
to experience the danger if we're really
going to put ourselves at risk
which has obviously huge potential
upside but also has potential downside
one of the things that seems to me to be
the core of where you're at at this
point in your life is that notion of
feedback that you brought up earlier
certainly the seems like the soul of the
alt mba is the feedback
one how do we
receive that feedback because most
people are going to feel attacked most
people
you know they put up the psychological
immune system and they reject that
how do we deal with that
or some people do the opposite and they
take it all in and they're crushed
that's interesting so i've made these
things on my my glowforge these are uh
writer's blocks
and
they take a long time to make
um because you have to like laser each
side and this one says all criticism is
not the same
that is the key to the whole deal
i have not read an amazon review of my
work in almost 10 years wow and the
reason is simple
because i've never met an author who
said i read all my one star reviews and
now i'm i'm a better writer
never because what does a one star
review mean a one star review means this
book wasn't for me
all right well you just told us about
you
you didn't tell us anything about the
book or me he told us about you okay
thank you for telling us but i don't
need to read that in detail
on the other hand if nicki papadopoulos
the amazing editor at penguin putnam
says
at uh portfolio says you need to change
the title
i'm like
i just paid you hundreds of thousands of
dollars so you would tell me to change
the title thank you very much because i
got to self-publish this book all by
myself with no feedback from anybody and
no one would have told me to change the
title this criticism is magic
and so you know
at akimbo what they have built is
institutions workshops the alt-mba where
the only feedback you're getting
is precious
and they filtered out all other stuff
and
you can build a system like that you can
figure out how to make sure you're
listening to the right people this is
why
being an opening act for a rock group
is a really bad idea
because you're going to show up in front
of the wrong people who are going to
give you the wrong feedback
it makes way more sense to figure out
who's it for
and bring it to them it might take a few
extra steps but the feedback you're
getting is the useful feedback
are there a few landmarks to knowing who
the people are that you should be
listening to to building that group
well i think it's two parts in the case
of me in the origin of my book
world there are the people
who are going to pay you and when those
people give you feedback you have to
listen to them or else they're not going
to pay you anymore but then there's this
other thing which is
as we discussed earlier people are
really bad at verbalizing where they're
coming from
when you see someone who is angry
look for the fear
they're not
they're probably not angry at you they
are probably afraid of something afraid
of what they'll tell their spouse afraid
of what they'll tell their boss afraid
of insufficiency or afraid of death and
they are expressing it to you
by being angry about something you did
if you over index for that feedback you
are going to make a mistake
on the other hand if you ignore all
feedback then the people you seek to
serve will choose not to be served by
you
and they will simply walk away
and so that's why this is so nuanced and
so complicated
because what you've got to figure out
how to do is thread a needle between
being a hack
and having a hobby
and there is a needle there is a way to
do it
but there are also people who were
contemporaries of his that didn't make a
living that died in a gutter somewhere
because they turned it too much into a
hobby
and then there were other people who got
too famous and i put miles davis in that
category and went from being magnificent
artists to being bitter
because they turned into a hack and then
they wanted to go back to being an
artist and they couldn't why couldn't he
that's interesting because he got hooked
on playing for 80 000 people
right i there i just watched a
great documentary about him about a year
ago and you can see the turning point
when bill graham put him on stage when
he realized that he liked being a rock
star
but if you're a rock star you don't also
get to make kind of blue
you can't do both
and so
he listened to a group of people who
told him what he would need to do
to be more of a rock star
but deep down he didn't really
want to be a rock star he wanted to make
his art
this is fascinating now i'm super
curious if you could go back in time and
you get like 20 minutes with him is
there an idea that you would try to
plant in his mind around self-narrative
that would help him understand like hey
you can actually reshape this so that
you can get closer to rhyming with
yourself um do you just go hey look this
is
the way it is and some people get you
know hooked on that and there's no
bringing them back
because there are so many people like
they're chasing money they're chasing
wealth they're chasing fame and
you know jim carrey's famous quote i
wish everybody could be rich and famous
so that you see that it isn't actually
what you want it to be or it isn't the
answer um i'm so curious what would what
if anything would you say to him at that
moment
well i think i have a slightly different
take um but it's specific
i would just say thank you
um
to have sacrificed so much to be who he
was and to make the change he made for
people
in the face of overt racial oppression
he had so much to prove to himself to
other people
he was disregarded he was
spat upon
he's entitled to sell out all he wants
and
to someone today
what i would say regardless of your
background regardless of where you came
from i would say what do you want
what do you what is it that you're
seeking because if you're trying to fill
an infinite hole
and the filling part isn't making you
happy i need to tell you about math and
math says infinite holes never get
filled
and so you know every year when forbes
publishes their billionaires list they
ruin
the day or the week or the month of at
least 100 people who have at least a
billion dollars because they're not
ranked as high
as they want to be that's absurd that's
absurd that you're keeping track of that
that you care about that in any way
that's an infinite hole it's not helping
you get where you want to get
instead maybe it makes sense to say
where is your fuel
what is the work you do
where when you do it
it makes you feel like you contributed
something stop
buying into metrics that were invented
by other people to help them
get where they want to go
and you know simple example is people
who buy their way onto the best seller
list right that they're spending 50 100
to game a system that every insider
knows is not very hard to game
why are you doing that what do you get
in return and how could you
stop keeping track of something that
shouldn't be kept track of and keep
track of something else instead
that's up to all of us every one of us
gets to make that choice who are you
trying to please if there's that person
that you're trying to please that is
always unpleasable you found an infinite
hole stop trying to fill it and go
please somebody else
seth you like if i had to i don't have
to conjure an image i have an image of
you in my head of somebody who
tap dances
in the most graceful beautiful way
around all the sort of mental traps that
we all fall for
and i'm saying this specific i've never
sort of put these things together so
forgive me i'm just sort of thinking out
loud
you have this
beautiful ability to be moved by people
people maybe that you've never even met
so we talked about leonard nimoy the
first time and now miles
davis is it do you open yourself up to
that are you just naturally impacted by
people do you seek the beauty and things
like that was such an interesting
framing around miles davis and to see
that it obviously hits you in a pretty
real way just curious like that seems
like a beautiful place to live for
people that want to live there what have
you done to sort of end up there
i always resist
something being natural or a talent
because i think it lets us off the hook
way too easy
um i do believe that people have
different emotional thermostats
and they're set
maybe by the way we're raised in the
traumas that we have or don't have
but yeah i do also think that people are
on various spectra about where they are
on that thermostat thing
in my case
i think the practical
discussion is
what are you training in
like i can't bench press 10 pounds
because my shoulders don't work very
well from surgery but even if i could
i could train to get to 20 or 30 or
whatever it is
and so we don't walk up to somebody who
has a lot of muscles in various parts of
their body and say were you born that
way
no they trained to get that way
and if you ask patricia to play scales
she can play scales blindfolded because
she trained for years and years and
years the fact that her father was a
jazz musician didn't give her any genes
in music
she just trained
and so
i've been training for a really long
time
to answer the question
why did someone just do what they did
how do i
get rid of some of the magic
of
the world is just a giant magic trick
and i don't know how it works right like
i know what freon gas does and i know
how a refrigerator functions it's
important to me i know that when you
flip the switch on the lights why the
lights go on that's important to me
and i needed to understand why that
person who turned down my book on spots
and stains turned it down and why the
person who tried to buy the book and
couldn't was really angry with me
i needed to understand that the same way
i need to understand why the lights work
and often i'm completely wrong
but i'm closer than if i hadn't asked
the question in the first place
and so i think the training is
can we develop practical empathy they
don't know what we know they don't want
what we want they don't need what we
need and that's okay what do they know
what do they need what happened to them
that led them to believe that in this
moment they are being reasonable
and if we can ask that question enough
times not only i think does it help us
make change
it helps us
live with the world as it is
because we can't change the whole world
but if we understand it at least we can
decode it and and figure out a way to
make it better
it's amazing
one final question
what do you hope so knowing that you go
into the book asking how do i want to
change people what what are you hoping
people take away from this concept of
the
practice two things uh
for all of us
we need what you could contribute if you
contributed it it
and for you the reader
uh i think it would be horrible if you
died with whatever you've got still
inside of you
and
it's not formed yet you will form it
when you have a practice when you start
believing in yourself don't wait to get
picked oprah's not going to call
but instead
adopt this practice of making things
better because 2020 is a year we all
want to forget
but the only way forward is not going to
be because some space alien comes and
fixes everything
it's going to be because we made
something better for 10 other people if
we all do that
it multiplies and then things get better
i love that where can people find you
uh i'm at seth's blog
and i'm thrilled to announce that at
kimbo the workshop organization i
started five years ago is now a b corp
uh legally obligated to work in the
public interest as well as the
for-profit and it is run and owned by
two of my senior people so i am part of
it in that they publish my workshops but
it's
them
and it's now 20 000 plus people who are
learning together it's at kimbo.com i
have a podcast not like you but a
podcast at akimbo.link
and uh
yeah i'm sort of hard to avoid if you
just click around you'll find me
i love it
guys this is in my opinion one of the
most profound
authors for sure thinkers
if you haven't already subscribed to
everything he does i highly highly
encourage it and speaking of things you
should subscribe to if you haven't
already be sure to subscribe here and
until next time my friends be legendary
take care
heroes are an enormously large supply
you can say what would bill gates do
what would elon musk do what would
jacqueline novogratz do and you can
study their work enough that even from
afar without them knowing you exist
because they're your hero you can start
to model it
you